README.md, before:

# PersonalLM

A continuous data aggregation script that collects personal data from various sources, summarizes it using Gemini 2.5 Pro LLM, and stores the results in a CSV file.

## Features

- Collects data from multiple sources:
  - Health data from local JSON files
  - Meeting transcripts from SQLite database
  - macOS Screen Time usage
  - Weather data (using Open-Meteo API)
  - News from multiple RSS feeds, Hacker News, and Reddit (with clickable links)
  - Mail data (using macOS AppleScript)
  - Calendar events (using macOS AppleScript)
  - iMessage conversations (directly from Messages SQLite database)
- Uses Gemini 2.5 Pro to summarize collected data with Markdown formatting
- Runs periodically with PM2
- Stores summaries in a timestamped CSV file

## Technical Features

- Concurrent data fetching with Promise.all for better performance
- Proper environment variable loading before config initialization
- Safe AppleScript execution via stdin piping
- Robust SQLite date filtering that works with any datetime format
- Automatic detection of ScreenTime database timestamp format (seconds or nanoseconds)
- RSS feeds filtered to only show today's news
- News items include clickable links in Markdown format
- XML parsing that handles CDATA sections and attributes
- CSV handling with proper escaping of quotes and newlines
- Graceful shutdown handling for SIGINT/SIGTERM signals
- Strong TypeScript typing with strict compiler options

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
bun install
```

The installation process will automatically run the setup script, which will:
- Detect your macOS username
- Check for available data sources and auto-disable unavailable ones
- Create necessary directories
- Ask for Gemini API key and other configuration details
- Ask for your location (e.g., "Milton Keynes, UK") and convert it to coordinates
- Generate a `.env` file with your settings
- Update the config.ts file to use environment variables

2. Run in development mode:

```bash
bun run dev
```

## Manual Setup

If you need to run setup again or want to change your configuration:

```bash
bun run setup
```

## Manual Configuration (Alternative to Setup Script)

If you prefer to configure manually, edit the `.env` file:
- Set API keys
- Configure data source paths
- Set aggregation interval
- Enable/disable specific data sources
- Configure RSS feeds (comma-separated list in RSS_FEEDS)

## PM2 Deployment

1. Install PM2 globally:

```bash
npm install -g pm2
```

2. Start the application with PM2:

```bash
bun run pm2
```

Or directly:

```bash
pm2 start pm2_process.json
```

3. Configure PM2 to start on system boot (optional):

```bash
pm2 startup
pm2 save
```

## Permissions

For Screen Time, Mail, and Calendar access, you might need to grant permissions:
- For Screen Time: Full Disk Access in System Preferences > Security & Privacy
- For Mail and Calendar: Automation access to control these applications

## Logs

When running with PM2, logs are stored in the `logs` directory.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

add static site to display summaries

README.md, after:

# PersonalLM

A continuous data aggregation script that collects personal data from various sources, summarizes it using Gemini 2.5 Pro LLM, and stores the results in a CSV file.

## Features

- Collects data from multiple sources:
  - Health data from local JSON files
  - Meeting transcripts from SQLite database
  - macOS Screen Time usage
  - Weather data (using Open-Meteo API)
  - News from multiple RSS feeds, Hacker News, and Reddit (with clickable links)
  - Mail data (using macOS AppleScript)
  - Calendar events (using macOS AppleScript)
  - iMessage conversations (directly from Messages SQLite database)
- Uses Gemini 2.5 Pro to summarize collected data with Markdown formatting
- Runs periodically with PM2
- Stores summaries in a timestamped CSV file
- Saves raw context data in compressed .ctx.br files for reference
- Uses previous day's summary to avoid repetition in new summaries

## Technical Features

- Concurrent data fetching with Promise.all for better performance
- Proper environment variable loading before config initialization
- Safe AppleScript execution via stdin piping
- Robust SQLite date filtering that works with any datetime format
- Automatic detection of ScreenTime database timestamp format (seconds or nanoseconds)
- RSS feeds filtered to only show today's news
- News items include clickable links in Markdown format
- XML parsing that handles CDATA sections and attributes
- CSV handling with proper escaping of quotes and newlines
- Graceful shutdown handling for SIGINT/SIGTERM signals
- Strong TypeScript typing with strict compiler options
- Context storage as Brotli-compressed JSON Lines for compactness (even smaller than plain text)

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
bun install
```

The installation process will automatically run the setup script, which will:
- Detect your macOS username
- Check for available data sources and auto-disable unavailable ones
- Create necessary directories
- Ask for Gemini API key and other configuration details
- Ask for your location (e.g., "Milton Keynes, UK") and convert it to coordinates
- Generate a `.env` file with your settings
- Update the config.ts file to use environment variables

2. Run in development mode:

```bash
bun run dev
```

## Manual Setup

If you need to run setup again or want to change your configuration:

```bash
bun run setup
```

## Manual Configuration (Alternative to Setup Script)

If you prefer to configure manually, edit the `.env` file:
- Set API keys
- Configure data source paths
- Set aggregation interval
- Enable/disable specific data sources
- Configure RSS feeds (comma-separated list in RSS_FEEDS)

## PM2 Deployment

1. Install PM2 globally:

```bash
npm install -g pm2
```

2. Start the application with PM2:

```bash
bun run pm2
```

Or directly:

```bash
pm2 start pm2_process.json
```

3. Configure PM2 to start on system boot (optional):

```bash
pm2 startup
pm2 save
```

## Permissions

For Screen Time, Mail, and Calendar access, you might need to grant permissions:
- For Screen Time: Full Disk Access in System Preferences > Security & Privacy
- For Mail and Calendar: Automation access to control these applications

## Logs

When running with PM2, logs are stored in the `logs` directory.

## Data Storage

All data is stored in the `./data` directory relative to the project root:

```
data/
 └─ YYYY/
     └─ MM/
         ├─ DD.csv         # Daily summaries
         └─ DD.ctx.br      # Raw context data (Brotli‑compressed JSON Lines)
```

The .ctx.br files contain the complete raw data fetched from all sources in the most recent run, compressed to save disk space. Each new run overwrites the previous day's context file, so you'll only have the latest data for each day.

## License

MIT
